>> Brown: ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER WANTS TEXAS TO GET
FEDERAL COURT APPROVAL BEFORE
CHANGING ELECTION RULES, PART OF
AN ADMINISTRATION STRATEGY TO
CHALLENGE LAWS IT SAYS
DISCRIMINATE BY RACE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
N THOE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MOVE COMES
AFTER THE SUPREME COURT THREW
OUT PART OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT.
WE EXAMINE THE LEGAL BATTLE
AHEAD.
>> Brown: THEN, A MAJOR HEDGE
FUND HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH
SECURITIES FRAUD AND INSIDER
TRADING.
HARI SREENIVASAN EXPLORES THE
INDICTMENT AND THE EFFORT TO
ROOT OUT FINANCIAL CRIMES.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF
CALIFORNIA'S MOST DANGEROUS
FELONS ARE ON A HUNGER STRIKE
AFTER BEING HELD IN ISOLATION
FOR YEARS.
WE GO INSIDE THE PRISON TO SEE
WHAT CONDITIONS ARE LIKE FOR THE
INMATES AND THEIR GUARDS.
>> I BELIEVE THAT CERTAIN PEOPLE
SHOULD BE ISOLATED.
BUT WITHOUT NO SUNLIGHT, GOING
YEARS WITH NO SUNLIGHT, IT WOULD
BE NICE TO LOOK OUT A WINDOW AND
SEE THE OUTSIDE.
THAT WOULD BE NICE.
>> Woodruff: OFFICIALS IN
PYONGYANG UNVEILED A NEW
CEMETERY FOR KOREAN WAR
VETERANS, THE FIRST OF SEVERAL
CEREMONIES FOR THE 60TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE END OF THE
CONFLICT.
WE GET A RARE REPORT FROM INSIDE
NORTH KOREA.
>> Woodruff: AND THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT RACE
CONTINUES AFTER THE ZIMMERMAN
VERDICT AND PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
PERSONAL REECTIFLONS.
WE HAVE OUR OWN ROUNDTABLE ABOUT
THE PRESSURES AND DANGERS FACED
BY YOUNG BLACK MEN.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TODAY CHALLENGED
VOTING LAWS IT SAYS DISCRIMINATE
ON THE BASIS OF RACE.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT IN
PHILADELPHIA BEFORE A MEETING OF
THE NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE--
PLEDGING TO FOCUS FIRST ON
TEXAS.
>> WE CANNOT ALLOW THE SLOW
UNRAVELING OF THE PROGRESS THAT
SO MANY, THROUGHOUT HISTORY,
HAVE SACRIFICED SO MUCH TO
ACHIEVE.
>> Woodruff: THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S DECLARATION SIGNALED
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S FIRST
MOVE TO PROTECT MINORITY VOTERS
SINCE THE SUPREME COURT
INVALIDATED PART OF THE LANDMARK
VOTING RIGHTS ACT LAST MONTH.
IN ITS FIVE TO FOUR DECISION,
THE COURT IN EFFECT REMOVED A
CRITICAL PROVISION REQUIRING
STATES WITH A LONG HISTORY OF
VOTER DISCRIMINATION TO GET
FEDERAL APPROVAL PRIOR TO ANY
CHANGES IN VOTING PRACTICES.
BUT TODAY, ERIC HOLDER SAID HIS
DEPARTMENT WOULD RELY ON
SURVIVING PORTIONS OF THE ACT.
>> WE PLAN, IN THE MEANTIME, TO
FULLY UTILIZE THE LAWS REMAINING
SECTIONS TO ENSURE THAT THE
VOTING RIGHTS OF ALL AMERICAN
CITIZENS ARE PROTECTED.
MY COLLEAGUES AND I ARE
DETERMINED TO USE EVERY TOOL AT
OUR DISPOSAL TO STAND AGAINST
DISCRIMINATION WHEREVER IT IS
FOUND.
>> Woodruff: AND WITH RESPECT TO
TEXAS, HE SAID THE STATE'S
RECENT HISTORY COULD STILL MAKE
IT SUBJECT TO FEDERAL PRE-
APPROVAL.
>> BASED ON THE EVIDENCE OF
INTENTIONAL RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION THAT WAS
PRESENTED LAST YEAR IN THE
REDISTRICTING CASE, TEXAS V.
HOLDER-- AS WELL AS THE HISTORY
WE BELIEVE THAT THE STATE OF
TEXAS SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO GO
THROUGH A PRECLEARANCE PROCESS
WHENEVER IT CHANGES ITS VOTING
LAWS AND PRACTICES.
>> Woodruff: STILL, HOLDER
PRESSED CONGRESS TO TAKE BI-
PARTISAN ACTION TO REINSTATE
PRE-CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS.
>> IT'S INCUMBENT UPON
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS FROM BOTH
PARTIES TO GUARANTEE THAT EVERY
ELIGIBLE AMERICAN WILL ALWAYS
HAVE EQUAL ACCESS TO THE POLLS;
TO ENSURE THAT WE WILL NEVER
TURN OUR BACK ON THE HARD-WON
PROGRESS OF THE LAST HUNDRED
YEARS; AND TO CONSIDER NEW
SOLUTIONS THAT ARE EQUAL TO THE
CHALLENGES OF THE 21st CENTURY.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE GOVERNOR OF
TEXAS RICK PERRY CRITICIZED THE
D.O.J.'S MOVE.
HIS STATEMENT SAID, QUOTE:
OFFICIALS IN OTHER SOUTHERN
STATES ONCE SUBJECT TO PRE-
CLEARANCE ARE WATCHING THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS ACTIONS
OSECLLY.
MANY, LIKE NORTH CAROLINA, HAVE
ENACTED OR FAST-TRACKED NEW
VOTING ELIGIBILITY RULES IN THE
WAKE OF THE SUPREME COURT'S
DECISION.
FOR MORE ON THE IMPLICATIONS OF
TODAY'S NEWS, WE TURN TO NINA
PERALES, THE VICE PRESIDENT OF
LITIGATION FOR MALDEF, THE
MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE
AND EDUCATIONAL FUND.
AND HANS VON SPAKOVSKY.
HE IS A SENIOR LEGAL FELLOW AT
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION AND
TESTIFIED RECENTLY AT A HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE HEARING ON
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU TO THE
"NEWSHOUR."
SO, NINA PERALES, TO YOU FIRST,
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY?
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS?
>> WELL, WE VERY MUCH APPRECIATE
THE ANNOUNCEMENT AND THE EFFORT
OF D.O.J. TO SUPPORT OUR REQUEST
IN THE TEXAS COURT, THAT TEXAS
BE PUT UNDER CONTINUING
SUPERVISION UNDER THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT.
IT'S SORELY NEEDED.
TEXAS IS THE POSTER CHILD FOR
WHY WE CONTINUE TO NEED THE
PROTECTIONS OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT.
AND I HOPE THAT D.O.J.'S EFFORT
IS JUST THE BEGINNING OF.
ECONTINUED INVOLVEMENT IN VOTING
RIGHTS IN TEXAS.
>> Woodruff: SORELIY NEEDED.
I'M NOT SURE THAT'S TRUE.
IT SHOWS THE CRITICS OF THE
SUPREME COURT DECISION THAT
KNOCKED OUT SECTION 5 OF THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACTS ARE WRONG.
THIS SHOWS THERE ARE STILL VERY
POWERFUL TOOLS IN THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT THAT THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL CAN USE.
IN FACT, THIS IS THE RIGHT WAY
TO DO IT.
RATHER THAN HAVING JUST BLANKET
COVERAGE OF A NUMBER OF STATES
BASED ON 40-YEAR-OLD DATA, THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS GOING TO
HAVE TO GO TO COURT, CONVINCE A
COURT AND PRODUCE EVIDENCE THAT
TEXAS HAS ENGAGED IN
DISCRIMINATORY CONDUCT, AND
SHOULD BE PUT UNDER SUPERVISION
BASED ON CURRENT CONDITIONS.
AND THAT'S THE WAY IT SHOULD BE.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SUGGESTING
THAT'S A HARDER PULL, A HARDER
ARGUMENT TO MAKE THAN IT WAS
BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT RULING.
>> WELL, YEAH, BUT BECAUSE THE--
TEXAS WAS COVERED UNDER SECTION
5 BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT
RULING BASED ON DATA THAT WAS 40
YEARS OLD.
IT WAS BASED ON TURNOUT
INFORMATION FROM THE 1964-1968,
AND 1972 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.
WHEREAS NOW, JUSTICE WILL HAVE
TO BRING CURRENT EVIDENCE THAT
THEY'RE DISCRIMINATING, AND THAT
THEY WILL CONTINUE TO
DISCRIMINATE UNLESS THEY'RE PUT
UNDER COURT SUPERVISION.
>> Woodruff: SO NINA PERALES,
EXPLAIN WHAT THE CHALLENGE IS IN
TEXAS THAT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT IS SAYING IT'S GOING
TO SUPPORT.
>> WELL, THE CHALLENGE HAS
LARGELY BEEN LITIGATED.
WE FILED SUIT AGAINST TEXAS-- BY
"WE--" I MEAN VARIOUS CIVIL
RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS IN TEXAS
SUED THE STATE OVER THEIR 2011
REDISTRICTING PLANS.
WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO SECURE RELIEF
SO FAR, AND AT THIS POINT, THE
REALLY IMPORTANT QUESTION IN THE
CASE IS WHETHER TEXAS IS GOING
TO BE PUT UNDER THE CONTINUING
SUPERVISION OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT.
I HAVE TO RESPOND TO HANS IN
SAYING THAT-- POINTING OUT THAT
TEXAS HAS NOT MADE IT THROUGH A
SINGLE REDISTRICTING ROUND SINCE
THE 1960s WITHOUT ONE OR MORE
OF ITS REDISTRICTING PLANS FOR
THE STATE BEING STRUCK DOWN AS
DISCRIMINATE OR, RACIALLY
DISCRIMINATE OR AGAINST
MINORITIES, AND THAT WAS
CERTAINLY THE CASE IN THIS ROUND
AS WELL, WHERE TWO COURTS FOUND
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION PROBLEMS
WITH THE STATE'S REDISTRICTING
PLAN.
SO WE THINK THAT TEXAS IS
PERFECT FOR THE KIND OF
PRECLEARANCE OBLIGATION THAT WAS
REMOVED IN THE "SHELBY" DECISION
BY THE SUPREME COURT, BUT WHICH
CAN BE HESTORED BY OUR FEDERAL
COURT HERE IN TEXAS IF IT
SPHIENDZ THAT THE COVERAGE IS
WARRANTED.
>> Woodruff: SO SHE'S SAYING
TEXAS' SITUATION IS PERFECT FOR
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TO
CONTINUE-- FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO CONTINUE TO BE
INVOLVED UNDER THE SURVIVING
LANGUAGE IN THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT.
>> WELL, IT WILL BE IF-- IF THEY
CAN PROVE INTENTIONAL
DISCRIMINATION.
I MEAN, ONE OF THE PROBLEMS WITH
SECTION 5 WAS THAT IT HAD AN
EFFECTS TEST--
>> Woodruff: WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SECTION FIVE, JUST
SO THE AUDIENCE UNDERSTANDS,
WHAT ARE WE TALKING ABOUT?
>> SECTION 5 WAS A SPECIAL
PROVISION OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT SAYING A SMALL NUMBER OF
COVERED JURISDICTIONS COULD NOT
MAKE ANY CHANGES IN THEIR VOTING
LAWS WITHOUT GETTING THE
PREAPPROVAL OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, EITHER DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE OR A FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
AND THE COVERAGE WAS BASED ON
HAVING LESS THAN 50% TURNOUT IN
THESE FEDERAL ELECTIONS BACK IN
'64, '68, '72.
AND THE PROBLEM WITH THE
STATUTE-- ONE OF THE PROBLEMS
WAS THAT THEY NEVER UPDATED THAT
FORMULA.
EVEN THOUGH TODAY BLACKS VOTE AT
HIGHER RATES IN MANY OF THE
COVERED STATES DISPP THE OTHER
PROBLEM WAS THAS AN "EFFECTS"
TEST.
IN OTHER WORDS, THERE CAN BE NO
INTENT TO DISCRIMINATE, NO
PURPOSEFUL DISCRIMINATION, AND
YET, IF IT SUPPOSEDLY HAS A
DISPARATE INTARKT THEN IT
VIOLATES THE LAW.
>> Woodruff: SO BOTTOM LINE
HERE, NINA PERALES, IS-- DOES
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ACTION
MAKE IT MORE-- MAKE IT EASIER
FOR YOU AND OTHERS WHO ARE
CHALLENGING REDISTRICTING,
FUTURE REDISTRICTING DECISIONS
IN THE STATE OF TEXAS, DOES IT
MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT YOU'LL
BE SUCCESSFUL?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S ALWAYS
HELPFUL WHEN THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT COMES IN AND SUPPORTS
THE POSITION OF VOTING RIGHTS
ADVOCATES.
AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO POINT OUT
THAT I THINK IT COULD BE REALLY
CRITICAL IN ADDITIONAL CASES
THAT ARE WOUND TO BE BROUGHT IN
TEXAS.
WE STILL ARE STRUGGLING WITH
DISCRIMINATION NOT JUST AT THE
STATE LEVEL BUT AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL.
D.O.J. RECENTLY DENIED
PRECLEARANCE, BEFORE THE SUPREME
COURT DECISION, TO A
REDISTRICTING PLAN IN THE AREA
OF CORPUS CHRISTI, TEXAS.
WE HAVE ONGOING VOTING RIGHTS
LITIGATION IN HOUSTON.
I WAS JUST MEETING WITH SOMEBODY
TODAY OVER THE DALLAS CITY
COUNCIL'S RECENT REDISTRICTING
PLAN.
SEATS MY HOPE THAT THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE DOESN'T
SIMPLY SUPPORT OUR EFFORT TO GET
CONTINUING COVERAGE IN TEXAS
STATEWIDE, BUT ALSO THAT THEY
COME IN AND HELP US ADDRESS
THESE DISCRIMINATION ISSUES THAT
ARE POPPING UP ON THE LOCAL
LEVEL.
>> Woodruff: IS WHAT THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT DOING
HEALTHY?
YOU SAID A MINUTE AGO IT'S
BETTER FOR THEM TO DO UNDER THIS
PROVISION THAN THE ONE THE COURT
KNOCKED DOWN.
BUT IS THIS-- IS THIS HEALTHY
FOR AMERICAN DEMOCRACY?
IS IT-- IS IT HEALTHY FOR THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO BE
INVOLVED IN POVERBAL VOTER
DISCRIMINATION?
>> OF COURSE.
LOOK, IF THERE'S ACTUAL
DISCRIMINATION GOING ON, THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SHOULD BE
THERE TO TRY TO STOP IT AND
REMEDY IT.
THE PROBLEM IS THIS LAW HAS BEEN
ATBIEWDZ IN MANY INSTANCES IN
THE PAST.
PARTS OF THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT,
A GOOD EXAMPLE IS THE FACT THAT
THAT THEY OBJECTED TO SOUTH
CAROLINA'S VOTER I.D. LAW AND IT
WAS REALLY A FRIVOLOUS
OBJECTION.
SOUTH CAROLINA HAD TO SPEND $3.5
MILLION IN COURT TO FIGHT THEM,
AND THEY WERE SUCCESSFUL, AND
THEY BEAT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING
THIS TEXAS MOVE IS FRIVOLOUS?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I HAVEN'T SEEN THE EVIDENCE THAT
THEY WOULD FALL WITHIN SECTION
3.
ONE THING TO KEEP IN MIND IS
SECTION 3 REQUIRES YOU TO SHOW
THAT THE STATE HAS VIOLATED THE
14th AND 15th AMENDMENT
RIGHTS OF TEXAS RESIDENTS.
I HAVEN'T SEEN THE EVIDENCE YET
THAT THAT HAS OCCURRED.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU
RESPOND TO THAT, NINA PERALES?
>> WE DO HAVE SUBSTANTIAL
EVIDENCE OF RACIALLY
DISCRIMINATORY INTENT IN THE
2011 REDISTRICTING PLANS, AND IN
FACT, A FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. LAST YEAR
PURSUANT TO THE PRECLEARANCE
PROVISION FOUND THAT TEXAS HAD
INTENTIONALLY DISCRIMINATED
AGAINST MINORITY VOTERS IN ITS
STATE SENATE PLAN, AS WELL AS
THE CONGRESSIONAL PLAN AND FOUND
THAT THE STATE HAD SLID
BACKWARDS IN THE STATED HOUSE
PLAN.
NOW, THAT DECISION WAS
SUBSEQUENTLY ADVOCATED BY THE
SUPREME COURT FOLLOWING ITS
DECISION IN "SHELBY" BECAUSE OF
THE CHANGES NOW THAT THE COURT
HAS DECLARED IN THE COVERAGE
PROVISIONS.
BUT WE HAVE ABSOLUTE CONFIDENCE
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, WHERE WE'RE
TRYING OUR CASE, IS GOING TO
LOOK AT THAT AND HE WAS COME TO
THE SAME CONCLUSION AS THE COURT
IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
>> Woodruff: FINAL QUICK WORD
FROM BOTH OF YOU.
NINA PERALES, DOES WHAT THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL ANNOUNCED TODAY
SUPPORT YOU AND WHAT YOU'RE
DOING IN TEXAS?
>> YES.
THE CONTINUAL'S ANNOUNCEMENT
SUPPORTS US.
NOT JUST IN THE SHORT TERM, IN
TERMS OF SOME OF THE RELIEF THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO GET IN TEXAS
REDISTRICTING, BUT IN THE LONG
TERM.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO THE SUPPORT
OF THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IN
REMEDYING ALL OF THE LOCAL
VIOLATIONS THAT WE FIGHT HERE IN
TEXAS.
>> Woodruff: AND HOW DO YOU
SEE THAT?
>> WELL, I-- I HOPE SHE DOES GET
HELP, BUT I SHOULD POINT OUT,
FOR EXAMPLE, THE LAST FIVE
YEARS, THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
HAS ONLY FILED ONE LAWSUIT UNDER
SECTION 2 OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT TO TRY TO STOP VOTING
DISCRIMINATION.
SO THEY HAVEN'T BEEN VERY
EFFECTIVE IN ENFORCING OTHER
PARTS OF THE VOTE, RIGHTS ACT.
>> Woodruff: WE GOING TO LEAVE
IT THERE, HANS VON SPAKOVSKY,
NINA PERALES, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": CHARGES OF INSIDER
TRADING AGAINST A HEDGE FUND;
CALIFORNIA INMATES ON A HUNGER
STRIKE; THE 60th ANNIVERSARY OF
THE END OF THE KOREAN WAR.
PLUS, BEING A BLACK MAN IN
AMERICA.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
INDICTED FOUR RUSSIAN NATIONALS
AND A UKRAINIAN FOR HACKING
CORPORATE COMPUTERS TO STEAL
MILLIONS IN CASH AND GOODS.
THEY'RE CHARGED WITH STEALING
SOME 160 MILLION CREDIT AND
DEBIT CARD NUMBERS THEN CREATING
AND SELLING THEIR OWN CARDS IN
THE LARGEST SUCH CASE IN U.S.
HISTORY.
THE OPERATION TARGETED 17
AMERICAN AND INTERNATIONAL
CORPORATIONS, INCLUDING J.C.
PENNEY, 7-ELEVEN AND NASDAQ
RESULTING IN LOSSES OF MORE THAN
$300 MILLION.
U.S. ATTORNEY PAUL FISHMAN SAID
TWO OF THE ALLEGED HACKERS ARE
IN CUSTODY.
>> THE INDIVIDUALS CHARGED AND
ARRESTED IN THIS CASE ARE THE
ONES AT THE TOP, THE ONES WHO
STEAL THE DATA THAT THEY SELL TO
THE FOLKS WHO CASH OUT.
BY ARRESTING TWO OF THE KEY
PLAYERS AND IDENTIFYING THREE OF
THE OTHERS WE BELIEVE WE HAVE
TAKEN A MAJOR STEP TOWARD
DISMANTLING THIS ORGANIZATION.
>> Holman: PROSECUTORS SAID THE
OTHER THREE SUSPECTS IN THE CASE
REMAINED AT LARGE.
POLICE IN NORTHWEST SPAIN ARE
QUESTIONING THE DRIVER OF A
TRAIN THAT DERAILED
CATASTROPHICALLY AFTER
APPARENTLY TRAVELING AT AN
EXCESSIVE SPEED.
AT LEAST 80 PEOPLE ON BOARD DIED
AND NEARLY 100 WERE INJURED.
THE CRASH HAPPENED LAST NIGHT
OUTSIDE SANTIAGO DE COMPOSTELA,
AS THE CITY'S ANNUAL CATHOLIC
FESTIVAL WAS GETTING UNDERWAY.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
LEWIS VAUGHAN JONES OF
"INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: FROM JUST ABOVE
THE WRECKAGE, THE MAN FILMING
HERE IS REPEATING THE WORDS,
"WHAT HORROR."
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE WERE IN THESE
CARRIAGES.
ON TOP OF THE BANK, TRAIN SEATS
ARE SCATTERED ON THE GROUND, AND
ONE WHOLE CARRIAGE LANDED HERE
WILL.
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO RESCUE
PASSENGERS INSIDE.
DOWN ON THE TRACK, OTHER
ATTEMPTS TO HELP SEEM FUTILE.
THESE ARE THE MOMENTS JUST
BEFORE THE CRASH.
WE HAVE STOPPED THE PICTURE, BUT
AS THE TRAIN ROUNDS THE CORNER,
THE CARRIAGES TIP, AND SMASH
INTO THE BANK.
THE CRASH HAPPENED AROUND 8:40
LAST NIGHT.
THIS IS ONE OF EUROPE'S
WORST-EVER TRAIN CRASHES.
JUST TWO SMILES FROM SANTIAGO DE
COMPOSTELA STATION.
THIS MORNING, THE WORK OF
CLEARING THROUGH THE
DESTRUCTION-- HERE, PEOPLE'S
SUITCASES ARE BEING TAKEN AWAY.
THE HUGE SCALE OF ALL THIS
VISIBLE IN THE SMALLEST FACIAL
EXPRESSION.
THE SPANISH PRIME MINISTER HAS
DECLARED THREE DAYS OF OFFICIAL
MOURNING ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
HE SAID, "TODAY, WE HAVE LIVED
THROUGH A TERRIBLE, DRAMATIC
ACCIDENT WHICH I FEAR WILL STAY
IN OUR MEMORIES FOR A LONG
TIME."
THE CARRIAGES HAVE BEEN WINCHED
AWAY.
QUESTIONS NOW ABOUT HOW THIS
COULD HAVE HAPPENED AND WITH
SPEED A FACTOR, ONE OF THE TRAIN
DRIVERS IS BEING INVESTIGATED.
>> Holman: THE STATE DEPARTMENT
CONFIRMED ONE OF THOSE KILLED IN
LAST NIGHT'S CRASH WAS AN
AMERICAN.
FIVE AMERICANS WERE AMONG THE
INJURED.
A NEW WAVE OF BOMBING AND
SHOOTING ATTACKS SWEPT ACROSS
IRAQ TODAY, KILLING AT LEAST 42
PEOPLE.
THE DEADLIEST BLAST HAPPENED
INSIDE A BUSY CAFE NORTH OF
BAGHDAD.
16 IRAQIS DIED.
THE RECENT INCREASE IN VIOLENCE
HAS CLAIMED THE LIVES OF MORE
THAN 550 PEOPLE SO FAR THIS
MONTH.
CHINESE OFFICIALS HAVE CHARGED
OUSTED POLITICIAN BO XILAI WITH
BRIBERY, EMBEZZLEMENT AND ABUSE
OF POWER.
BO RAN THE METROPOLIS OF
CHONGQING FOR FIVE YEARS, AND
WAS A RISING STAR IN THE
COMMUNIST PARTY.
BUT EARLY LAST YEAR HE WAS
CAUGHT UP IN A SCANDAL INVOLVING
HIS WIFE AND THE MURDER OF A
BRITISH BUSINESSMAN.
THE 64-YEAR-OLD BO HASN'T BEEN
SEEN IN PUBLIC FOR 17 MONTHS.
HIS TRIAL IS EXPECTED BEGIN
WITHIN WEEKS.
THE DEATH TOLL IN THE TWO-AND-A-
HALF-YEAR-LONG SYRIAN CONFLICT
HAS NOW SURPASSED
100,000.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO AN ESTIMATE
OUT TODAY FROM THE UNITED
NATIONS.
THE GRIM MILESTONE CAME AS U.S.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MET WITH LEADERS OF SYRIA'S
OPPOSITION AT THE U.N.
HE URGED THEM TO SEEK A
POLITICAL SOLUTION TO END THE
CIVIL WAR.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT TODAY
REPORTED THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS
APPLYING FOR JOBLE BENSSEFITS
ROSE SLIGHTLY LAST WEEK.
STILL, STOCKS MANAGED MODEST
GAINS ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED 13 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
15,555.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 25 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,605.
PIONEERING SEX RESEARCHER
VIRGINIA JOHNSON HAS DIED.
JOHNSON TRANSFORMED THE STUDY OF
HUMAN SEXUALITY IN THE 1960s--
ALONG WITH HER HUSBAND, THE LATE
WILLIAM MASTERS-- AND PENNED TWO
BEST-SELLING BOOKS.
THEY ALSO CONDUCTED CRITICAL
RESEARCH ON THE DIAGNOSIS AND
TREATMENT OF SEXUAL DISORDERS
AND DYSFUNCTIONS.
VIRGINIA JOHNSON WAS 88 YEARS
OLD.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN TO NEW
ALLEGATIONS FROM THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT OF UNPRECEDENTED
INSIDER TRADING BY ONE OF WALL
STREET'S MOST SUCCESSFUL HEDGE
FUNDS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: S.A.C. CAPITAL
HAS LONG BEEN KNOWN FOR POSTING
SOME OF THE BEST RETURNS IN THE
INDUSTRY.
ITS FOUNDER, STEVEN A. COHEN,
HAS BEEN SEEN AS AN EXCEPTIONAL
TRADER ON WALL STREET.
COHEN HIMSELF WAS NOT INDICTED
TODAY.
BUT FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
ANNOUNCED CRIMINAL CHARGES
AGAINST THE FIRM, SAYING
PORTFOLIO MANAGERS, SUPERVISORS
AND ANALYSTS HAD ENGAGED IN
SECURITIES FRAUD FOR AT LEAST A
DECADE BY USING INSIDE
INFORMATION OF AT LEAST 20
PUBLIC COMPANIES.
COHEN WAS BLAMED IN PART FOR THE
LARGER CULTURE AT THE FUND, ONCE
WORTH $15 BILLION.
FIVE FORMER EMPLOYEES HAVE
ADMITTED TO INSIDER TRADING AT
S.A.C.
AT A PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY, US
ATTORNEY PREET BAHARA SAID IT
WAS A MAGNET FOR MARKET CHEATERS
WITH RAMPANT INSIDER TRADING.
>> WHEN SO MANY PEOPLE FROM A
SINGLE HEDGE FUND HAVE ENGAGED
IN INSIDER TRADING, IT IS NOT A
COINCIDENCE.
IT IS, INSTEAD, THE PREDICTABLE
PRODUCT OF SUBSTANTIAL AND
PERVASIVE INSTITUTIONAL FAILURE.
AS ALLEGED, S.A.C. TRAFFICKED IN
INSIDE INFORMATION ON A SCALE
WITHOUT ANY KNOWN PRECEDENT IN
THE HISTORY OF HEDGE FUNDS.
>> Sreenivasan: SHEELA KOLHATKAR
COVERS THIS INDUSTRY FOR
BLOOMBERG "BUSINESSWEEK" AND WAS
AT THE PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY.
41 PAGES LONG, WHAT ARE THE
HIGHLIGHTS?
WHAT ARE THEY ALLEGED TO HAVE
DONE?
>> THEY'RE BASICALLY CHARGING
S.A.C. CAPITAL, THE COMPANY,
WITH BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR YEARS
AND YEARS OF ILLEGAL TRADING ON
THE PARTS OF A HANDFUL OF
PORTFOLIO MANAGERS.
THEY'RE BASICALLY SAYING THE
HEDGE FUND OWNER-- WHO IS NOT
NAMED, INTRIGUINGLY IN THE
DOCUMENTS, BUT HE ALL KNOW IT IS
STEVEN COHEN-- THEY SAY HE HIRED
PEOPLE KNOWING THEY HAD CONTACTS
AT PUBLIC COMPANIES WHO COULD
LEAK THEM NONE PUBLIC FOKS, THAT
THAT WAS A PRIORITY IN HIS
HIRING.
THAT HE COMPENSATED THESE
PEOPLE-- HE PAID THEM BONUSES IN
EXCHANGE FOR THEIR SHARING OF
THIS KIND OF INFORMATION AND
BRINGING IN PROFITS INTO THE
FIRM.
AND BASICALLY, THE LANGUAGE IS
SO STRONG IN THIS CHARGING
DOCUMENT, IT MAKES IT SOUND LIKE
THE ENTIRE OPERATION WAS
COMPLETELY ROTTEN.
IF YOU BELIEVE WHAT BAHARA SAID
TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE WAS A
QUOTE FROM F.B.I. SAYING S.A.C.
NOT ONLY TOLERATED CHEATING.
IT ENCOURAGED IT.
YOU SAY THESE BONUSES, WERE THEY
GIVEN BONUSES FOR CHEAT ORGJUST
HAVING THAT MYSTERY EDGE?
OF>> COURSE THE WORD "EDGE"
POPS UP INTRIGUINGLY THROUGHOUT
THIS.
IT USED TO BE USED COMMONLY ON
WITH THE AS A SORT OF YOU'VE
FISM FOR YOUR ADVANTAGE, YOUR
INFORMATION ADVANTAGE IN THE
MARKET.
WHAT'S THE LITTLE THING YOU KNOW
THAT OTHER PEOPLE DON'T KNOW
THAT CAN ALLOW TO YOU MAJ
MAKEMONEY.
OF COURSE, OFTEN, "EDGE" IN THAT
SENSE IS ILLEGAL.
YOU ARE NOT SUPPOSED TO TRADE ON
INFORMATION OTHER PEOPLE DON'T
HAVE.
THE BOUNCES AND OTHER
COMPENSATION AT THE FIRM WAS
OFTEN BASED ON HOW PROFITABLE
THE TRADERS' IDEAS WERE AND THEY
WERE OFTEN ENCOURAGED TO BRING
THEIR BEST AND MOST PROFITABLE
IDEAS TO COHEN HIMSELF.
THE COMPLAINT ALLEGES THAT THEY
DIDN'T TALK ABOUT INSIDE
INFORMATION, BUT THEY WERE SORT
OF EUPHEMISMS TO DESCRIBE A
CONVICTION RATING.
YOU COULD SAY, "I HAVE A
CONVICTION RATING OF 10 OUT OF
10 ON THIS."
COHEN MIGHT THINK, OKAY, THAT
MEANS YOU KNOW SOMETHING.
THERE WERE, THAT MEANS IT WILL
BE A PROFITABLE TRADE.
IF IT TURNS OUT TO WORK OUT WELL
FOR THE FIRM HE WILL PAY YOU
HANDSOMELY FOR IT AND THIS IS
PART OF THE CULTURE OF COUNTRY.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HAVE HEARD
IN THE PAST INSIDE TRADING
COMPANIES AGAINST INDIVIDUALS
BUT WHY GO AFTER THE FIRM?
WHAT IS SIGNIFICANT ABOUT THAT
TODAY?
>> IT'S A VERY INTERESTING MOVE
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T HAPPEN VERY
OFTEN, ESPECIALLY NOT WITH A
COMPANY OF THIS SIZE.
IT HAS 1,000 EMPLOYEES, AND IT
HAD $15 BILLION IN ASSETS AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE YEAR.
I THINK, FROM COVERING THIS FOR
A NUMBER OF MONTHS, THAT THEY
WOULD HAVE LIKED TO CHARGE COHEN
HIMSELF, AND THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF EFFORT AND RESOURCES DEVOTED
TO TRYING TO BUILD A CASE
AGAINST STEVE COHEN HIMSELF FOR
ENGAGING IN INSIDE TRADING.
THIS MOVE TODAY ON THE PART OF
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT SIGNALS THAT
THEY WERE NOT ABLE, LEAST AT
THIS STAGE, TO MAKE A CASE
AGAINST HIM.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ANY WITNESSES
SAYING THAT HE PARTICIPATED
INNEEDPARTICIPATED ININSIDER TR.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ANY WIRETAPS.
INSTEAD THEY'VE TAKEN THIS
APPROACH OF INDICTING THE WHOLE
COMPANY SAYING IT FOSTERED THIS
CULTURE OF LAWBREAKING SORT OF
BEHAVIOR.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS A
MATTER OF GOING AFTER THE FIRM
BECAUSE THEY COULDN'T GET HIM
AND TRY TO ESSENTIALLY DRY THE
FIRM UP, DESTROY ITS BUSINESS?
>> WELL, I'M SURE THEY THOUGHT
VERY LONG AND HARD ABOUT HOW IT
WOULD IMPACT FIRM'S BUSINESS
BECAUSE OF COURSE, YOU KNOW,
IT'S NOT GOOD.
IT COULD LEAD TO JOB LOSSES.
IT WILL SORT OF SEND RIPPLES
THROUGHOUT WALL STREET.
BUT, YES, I THINK AT SOME POINT
THEY DECIDED THIS OPERATION WAS
DIRTO SOME LEVEL AND, OF COURSE,
COHEN, AND HIS FIRM HAVE ARGUED
THROUGHOUT THIS PROCESS THAT
THEY HAVEN'T DONE ANYTHING
WRONG.
SO, YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE MOMENT
WHERE THE GOVERNMENT HAS TO
REALLY SHOATS HAND, AND THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO PROVE THAT THIS
IS ACTUALLY TRUE AND, YOU KNOW,
THAT ALL THIS ENERGY THAT HAS
BEEN SPENT TRYING TO TAKE THIS
COMPANY DOWN HAS ACTUALLY
BROUGHT THEM SOMEWHERE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT'S THE
IMPACT ON THE FIRM SO FAR?
HAS BUSINESS GONE AWAY?
H
INVESTMENTS AT S.A.C.?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I MEAN, BECAUSE THIS HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR SO LONG, A LOT OF
DAMAGE HAS ALREADY BEEN DONE.
THE FIRM HAD ABOUT $15 BILLION
AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS YEAR.
ONLY $6 BILLION OF THAT WAS
OUTSIDE INVESTOR MONEY.
OVER THE COURSE OF THIS YEAR, AS
ONE S.A.C. EMPLOYEE OR FORMER
EMPLOYEE AFTER ANOTHER HAS BEEN
CHARGED TORE LINKED TO INSIDER
TRADING, THERE HAS BEEN ALL THIS
TERRIBLE PRESS AND PUBLICITY.
THE S.E.C. HAS CHARGED THE FIRM.
A LOT OF INVESTORS HAVE ALREADY
PULLED OUT THEIR MONEY THEY ONLY
HAVE AROUND $1 BILLION IN
OUTSIDE INVESTOR MONEY LEFT.
SO IN THAT RESPECT, IF EVEN THE
END RESULT OF THAT YOU WILL IS
COHEN HIMSELF GET BANNED FROM
THE SECURITIES INDUSTRY, ALL
THAT MEANS IS THAT HE CANNOT
TRADE OUTSIDE INVESTOR MONEY.
HE CANNOT SERVE AS AN INVESTMENT
ADVISER.
AND HE'S ALMOST EFFECTIVELY AT
THAT POINT NOW.
MOST OF THE CAPITAL THAT REMAINS
IN THE FUND IS HIS OWN PERSONAL
WEALTH.
>> Sreenivasan: AS YOU
MENTIONED, HE FACES NO CRIMINAL
CHARGES.
WHAT'S THE IMPACT TO THE REST OF
THE STREET?
DOES IT SEND A STRONG ENOUGH
MESSAGE?
THIS IS A HUGE FIRM THEY'RE
GOING AFTER AND THIS IS A
CULTURE THEY'RE KIND OF LAYING
OPEN.
>> YES, I THINK PREET MADE THAT
PRETTY CLEAR.
HE'S TRYING TO DISCOURAGE
GREED-- AT LEAST THAT'S WHAT HE
SAID.
HE'S TRYING TO DISCOURAGE
CHEATING.
THIS IS A FIRM THAT HAD ACHIEVED
LEGENDARY STATUS ON WALL STREET.
IT WAS THE BIGGEST AND MOST
SUCCESSFUL FOR THE MOST NUMBER
OF YEARS NOONG A PEER GROUP OF
VERY LARGE, SUCCESSFUL HEDGE
FUNDS, AND A LOT OF TRADERS ON
WALL STREET HAVE BEEN INSPIRED
TO WORK THERE.
STEVIE COHEN WAS THI LEGENDARY
FIGURE.
HE ALWAYS MADE MONEY.
2008 WAS THE ONLY YEAR HIS FIRM
DOES DNOT HAVE SORT OF A VERY
IMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE.
SO I THINK IT IS GOING TO SHAKE
PEOPLE.
THERE HAD BEEN SOME FATIGUE, I
THINK, OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS
ON WALL STREET OVER SOME OF
THESE INSIDER TRADING CASES.
PEOPLE WERE GETTING A LITTLE
WEARY.
BUT THIS CASE TODAY WAS SO
STRONG AND SO SORT OF DRAMATIC,
I THINK PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
REALLY PAY ATTENTION.
AND TING HAS ALREADY SENT A
MESSAGE ABOUT CHEATING AND
AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR AND THE USE
OF INFORMATION.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Brown: NOW, FROM CALIFORNIA:
PRISONERS HELD IN ISOLATION FOR
YEARS AND SOMETIMES DECADES ARE
MOUNTING PROTESTS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MICHAEL
MONTGOMERY WITH THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING AND
KQED SAN FRANCISCO HAS THE
STORY.
>> Reporter: PELICAN BAY STATE
PRISON IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA IS
DESIGNED TO HOLD SOME OF THE
MOST DANGEROUS INMATES IN THE
STATES VAST PENAL SYSTEM.
INSIDE, IS A BUNKER-LIKE
SECURITY HOUSING UNIT WHERE
HUNDREDS OF MEN HAVE BEEN HELD
FOR MORE THAN A DECADE.
EARLIER THIS MONTH INMATES AT
PELICAN BAY LAUNCHED A STATE-
WIDE HUNGER STRIKE OVER
CONDITIONS IN THE SECURITY
UNITS.
THEY ARE SEEKING AN END TO WHAT
THEY CALL INDEFINITE SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT AND AN EASING OF
RESTRICTIONS.
ADVOCATES AND FAMILY MEMBERS
TOOK TO THE STREETS IN SUPPORT
OF THE ACTION, WHICH DREW IN
THOUSANDS OF INMATES FROM 14
PRISONS.
BEFORE THE HUNGER STRIKE GOT
UNDERWAY, I WAS ALLOWED TO VISIT
PELICAN BAY'S SECURITY UNIT.
I WANTED TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT
THE ISOLATED CONDITIONS AND THE
LIVES OF THE PRISONERS HELD
HERE.
PRISONERS LIKE JEREMY BEASLEY.
>> THE CONDITIONS BACK HERE ARE
HORRIBLE.
YOU DON'T GET NO SUNLIGHT.
I HAVEN'T HAD ANY HUMAN CONTACT
WITH ANYBODY WITHOUT BEING
CHAINED SINCE 2004.
>> Reporter: BEASLEY IS SERVING
A LIFE SENTENCE FOR MURDER.
ONCE BEHIND BARS, HE JOINED A
VIOLENT WHITE-POWER PRISON GANG.
AND THAT'S WHEN OFFICIALS SENT
HIM TO PELICAN BAY.
BEFORE RECENTLY AGREEING TO
LEAVE THE GROUP, BEASLEY SPENT
TEN YEARS CONFINED 22-AND-A-HALF
HOURS EACH DAY ALONE IN A SMALL
CELL.
>> I WASN'T A SAINT BEFORE.
I BELIEVE THAT CERTAIN PEOPLE
SHOULD BE ISOLATED, BUT WITHOUT
NO SUNLIGHT, GOING YEARS WITH NO
SUNLIGHT.
IT WOULD BE NICE TO LOOK OUT A
WINDOW AND SEE THE OUTSIDE.
THAT WOULD BE NICE.
>> Reporter: WHEN WAS THE LAST
TIME YOU SAW THE MOON?
>> THE MOON?
I DON'T EVEN KNOW.
IT WOULD HAVE TO HAVE BEEN BACK
IN '98.
>> Reporter: FOR AN HOUR AND A
HALF EACH DAY, BEASLEY IS
ALLOWED INTO A SMALL PEN WITH 20
FOOT HIGH CONCRETE WALLS
PARTIALLY COVERED WITH
PLEXIGLAS.
AND THAT IS HIS DAY, EVERY DAY.
PELICAN BAY IS ONE OF DOZENS OF
SUPERMAX PRISONS AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
THEY'RE BUILT TO MINIMIZE
CONTACT BETWEEN INMATES, OFTEN
DESCRIBED AS THE WORST OF THE
WORST.
BUT WHAT DISTINGUISHES PELICAN
BAY IS THE EXTRAORDINARY LENGTH
OF TIME SOME INMATES HAVE BEEN
HELD INSIDE.
SOME 500 PRISONERS HAVE BEEN
IMPRISONED AT PELICAN BAY FOR
MORE THAN A DECADE, ACCORDING TO
A FEDERAL LAWSUIT FILED LAST
YEAR BY A COALITION OF CIVIL
RIGHTS GROUPS.
THSUITE  ALLEGES THAT YEARS OF
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT CAUSES
SEVERE PHYSICAL AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL DAMAGE AND
VIOLATES A CONSTITUTIONAL BAN ON
CRUEL AND INHUMANE PUNISHMENT.
PELICAN BAY INMATES LAUNCHED THE
HUNGER STRIKE ON JULY 8.
THE STRIKE HAS SPARKED PROTESTS
THROUGHOUT CALIFORNIA LED BY
INMATES FAMILIES.
THEIR DEMANDS: LIMITS ON THE
TIME THAT INMATES CAN BE HELD IN
SOLITARY.
THEY ALSO WANT MORE FAMILY
VISITS, PHONE CALLS AND
REHABILITATION PROGRAMS.
MARIE LEVIN'S BROTHER, RONNIE
DEWBERRY, IS LOCKED UP AT
PELICAN BAY AND IS ONE OF THE
STRIKE ORGANIZERS.
>> THE UNITED NATIONS HAS
DECLARED THAT 15 DAYS IS THE
MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF TIME THAT ANY
ONE PERSON SHOULD BE IN SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT BUT YET THEY HAVE
ALLOWED MY BROTHER TO BE IN
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT FOR 29
YEARS!
>> Reporter: LEVIN HAD TO WAIT
25 YEARS TO GET A NEW PICTURE OF
HER BROTHER, BECAUSE THE THAT'S
BECAUSE RESTRICTIONS AT PELICAN
BAY INCLUDED A BAN ON INMATE
PHOTOGRAPHS.
THE BAN WAS LIFTED LAST YEAR.
>> THE FIRST ONE IN THE LATE 80S
I SEE A STRONG VIBRANT YOUNG
MAN, THE SECOND PHOTO I SEE AN
OLDER MAN WEARY, BUT STILL YET
HOLDING ON.
>> Reporter: PELICAN BAY WARDEN
GREG LEWIS REJECTS CHARGES OF
ABUSE.
HE SAYS THE UNITS ARE HUMANE AND
THAT INMATES LEADING THE HUNGER
STRIKE, LIKE MARIE LEVIN'S
BROTHER, ARE POWERFUL PRISON
GANG MEMBERS WHO RUN CRIMINAL
NETWORKS BEHIND BARS AND ON THE
STREETS.
>> EVERYBODY'S SEEN THE MOVIE
"THE GODFATHER."
EVERYBODY'S SEEN HOW THE
GODFATHER HIMSELF NEVER PULLED A
TRIGGER, NEVER STRANGLED
ANYBODY, DIDN'T RUN THE RACKETS,
DIDN'T RUN THE BOOZE, THESE ARE
THOSE MEN.
>> Reporter: LEWIS ALLEGES THAT
ALL THE INMATES HERE ARE IN THE
UPPER ECHELON OF DANGEROUS
GANGS, AND WOULD OPERATE WITH
IMPUNITY IF THEY WEREN'T LOCKED
UP AT PELICAN BAY.
>> THESE ARE NOT YOUR BURGLARS,
NOT YOUR STREET CORNER DRUG
DEALERS.
THESE MEN ARE HIGHLY VIOLENT AND
IT PROVIDES FOR THE SAFETY OF MY
STAFF, WHICH IS PARAMOUNT.
>> Reporter: BUT NOT ALL THE MEN
FIT THIS PROFILE
I MET LONNIE ROSE AT HIS HOME IN
STOCKTON.
HE WAS JUST RECENTLY RELEASED.UD
AT ALL THIS, YOU KNOW, THE
TREES, WHAT DO YOU THINK, HOW
DOES IT FEEL TO YOU?
>> I THINK IT'S GOOD TO BE HOME.
>> Reporter: ROSE WAS SENT TO
PRISON FOR A NON-VIOLENT DRUG
OFFENSE.
BUT FOLLOWING A RIOT, OFFICIALS
SENT HIM TO PELICAN BAY, SAYING
HE WAS ACTIVE IN A VIOLENT
PRISON GANG.
ROSE WAS THEN HELD IN ISOLATION
FOR NINE YEARS BASED ON TWO
PIECES OF EVIDENCE-- A DRAWING,
SUPPOSEDLY WITH GANG SYMBOLS AND
A PUZZLE BOOK, INSCRIBED WITH
THE NAME OF ANOTHER INMATE, AN
ALLEGED GANG MEMBER.
SO, TELL ME ABOUT THIS BOOK.
>> THIS IS "MATCH WITS WITH
MENSA," AND LITTLE DID I KNOW IT
WOULD COST ME SIX MORE YEARS IN
THE PELICAN BAY SHU.
>> Reporter: SO THE OFFICERS
CAME INTO YOUR CELL, THEY FOUND
THIS BOOK, THEY SAW ANOTHER
INMATE'S NAME IN IT, AND THAT
WAS ENOUGH?
>> THAT WAS ENOUGH.
>> Reporter: ROSE SAYS HE DIDN'T
KNOW THE OTHER INMATE BUT PRISON
STAFF CONCLUDED THAT HE WAS
ACTIVELY ASSOCIATING WITH A
KNOWN GANG MEMBER.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, ROSE
PETITIONED FOR RELEASE FROM
PRISON FOLLOWING CHANGES TO
CALIFORNIA'S SENTENCING LAWS.
A JUDGE DETERMINED HE WAS NOT A
DANGER TO SOCIETY AND GRANTED
ROSE FREEDOM.
>> THE COURTS SAW IT FOR WHAT IT
WAS.
I WENT TO PRISON ON A DRUG CASE,
I HAVEN'T BEEN THAT BIG OF A
PROBLEM.
AND I DON'T POSE A THREAT TO
PUBLIC SAFETY.
A POLICY ALLOWS TATTOOS,
DRAWINGS AND BOOKS TO BE USED AS
EVIDENCE.
THE FORMER WARDEN SAID CASES
LIKE RA'SOS SUGGEST THE PRISON
SECURITY UNIT IS NOT BEING USED
THE WAY IT WAS INTENDED.
>> THOSE CELLS ARE DEPARTMENTAL,
HIGH-VALUE CELLS, EXPENSIVE
CELLS, THAT SHOULD BE FOR THE
CURRENT, VIOLENT PREDATOR THAT'S
CAUSING PROBLEMS IN YOUR PRISON
SYSTEM.
THEY SHOULD BE RESERVED FOR
THOSE GUYS.
>> Reporter: HE OVERSAW MANY
INMATES PLACED IN ISOLATION AND
HE SEES ANOTHER PROBLEM-- ONCE
IN THE SECURITY UNITS, MOST
INMATES ARE HELD INDEFINITELY.
UNTIL RECENTLY, THE SUREST WAY
OUT WAS TO DIVULGE INFORMATION
ABOUT THE GANGS.
INMATES SAY THIS LEAVES THEM
WITH A STARK CHOICE-- SNITCH ON
OTHER PRISONERS OR REMAIN LOCKED
IN ISOLATION.
>> SO YEAH, IT TROUBLES ME.
I THINK THERE SHOULD BE A LIGHT
AT THE END OF THE TUNNEL FOR
ALMOST ALL INMATES.
KELLY HARRINGTON SAYS THE
DEPARTMENT HAS ALREADY MADE THE
CHANGES THAT THE HUNGER STRIKERS
ARE CALLING FOR.
>> THE DEPARTMENTS VIEW IS THAT
WE'VE MET THOSE DEMANDS.
>> Reporter: HARRINGTON CITES A
NEW DEPARTMENT PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTED FOLLOWING A 2011
HUNGER STRIKE THAT HAS
TRANSFERRED MORE THAN 200 MEN
OUT OF THE SECURITY UNITS AND
INTO REGULAR PRISONS.
MEN STILL HELD IN ISOLATION CAN
WORK THEIR WAY OUT BY REFRAINING
FROM GANG-RELATED ACTIVITY AND
PARTICIPATING IN SPECIAL
CLASSES.
HOPEFULLY THE MEN WILL SEE THAT
AS AN INCENTIVE TO GO OUT.
>> Reporter: BUT PROTESTERS
SAY THE DEPARTMENT'S NEW POLICY
DOESN'T GO FAR ENOUGH.
THEY WANT MEN HELD IN THE
SECURITY UNITS FOR MORE THAN TEN
YEARS TO BE LET OUT OF ISOLATION
WITHIN SIX MONTHS.
THEY ARE CONTINUING SETTLEMENT
TALKS OVER THE FEDERAL LAWSUIT.
THE NEXT ROUND OF SETTLEMENT
TALKS IN THE FEDERAL LAWSUIT ARE
SCHEDULED FOR THE END OF THE
MONTH.
BUT WITH BOTH SIDES DIGGING IN,
INMATES SAY THEY ARE PREPARED TO
STARVE THEMSELVES TO DEATH.
>> Brown: ONLINE, YOU'LL FIND A
SLIDE-SHOW OF PICTURES OF
INMATES HELD IN ISOLATION,
INCLUDING IMAGES BEFORE THEY
THE LINK TO THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING IS ON
OUR HOME PAGE.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A RARE VIEW
FROM INSIDE NORTH KOREA.
A HANDFUL OF WESTERN JOURNALISTS
WERE PERMITTED TO ENTER THE
USUALLY CLOSED COUNTRY AND GIVEN
ACCESS TO EVENTS MARKING THE
60th ANNIVERSARY OF THE END OF
THE KOREAN WAR.
AMONG THEM WAS JOHN SPARKS OF
BRITAIN'S CHANNEL 4 NEWS WHO
FILED THIS STORY FROM PYONGYANG.
>> Reporter: CHANNEL 4 NEWS
AMONG THE OTHER INTERNATIONAL
MEDIA WERE SHUTTLED THROUGH THE
CITY'S BARREN STREETS IN A
SIX-BUS CONVOY.
NO TIME TO STOP AND CHAT,
THOUGH.
THE NORTH KOREANS GO TO GREAT
LENGTH TO AVOID ACCIDENTAL
CONVERSATIONS WITH ORDINARY
CITIZENS.
THIS WEEK, THE AUTHORITIES WILL
HOLD EVENTS COMMEMORATING THE
60th ANNIVERSARY OF THE END
OF THE KOREAN WAR.
AND THEY INCLUDED THE OPENING OF
A BRAND NEW CEMETERY THIS
MORNING.
ALTHOUGH OUR ARRIVAL WASN'T
UNIVERSALLY WELCOMED.
>> PLEADS FOLLOW ME.
>> Reporter: JOURNALISTS ARE
ASSIGNED STATE MINDERS WITH
PARTICULAR IDEAS ABOUT WHAT CAN
AND CAN'T BE FILMED.
>> HELLO.
>> Reporter: SECURITY WAS
TIGHT.
EVEN THE VETERANS WITH THE
MEDALS WERE SUBJECT TO CHECKS.
IT'S NECESSARY, SAID OUR MINDER,
IMPORTANT OFFICIALS ARE
ATTENDING.
( APPLAUSE )
BUT WE WERE YOU ALL SURPRISED
WHEN THIS MAN TURNED UP, NORTH
KOREA'S 20-SOMETHING LEADER KIM
JONG-UN.
THE GREAT MARSHAL, AS HE'S
KNOWN, CUT THE RED RIBBON, MADE
AN INSPECTION OF THE CEMETERY,
THEN LEFT IN HIS STRETCH
MERCEDES.
KIM JONG-UN WASN'T HERE FOR
LONG, BUT A LARGE GROUP OF
SPECIALLY INVITED GUESTS IS NOW
TOURING THE FACILITY WHICH WAS
CREATED FOR THIS WEEK'S
COMMEMORATIVE EVENTS.
GRAVESITE AROUND RTHNO KOREA
WERE DUG UP AND RELOCATED HERE
IN THE CENTER OF PYONGYANG.
THE KOREAN WAR WAS A DEEPLY
TRAUMATIC EVENT, AND MISS, WHICH
RO ISN'T OVER IT.
SHE LOST HER FATHER IN THE
CONFLICT.
WHAT FEELINGS DO YOU HAVE
TOWARDS YOUR NEIGHBORS TO THE
SOUTH?
>> ( translated ): THERE'S NO
CHANGE IN FEELINGS.
I CAN'T FORGET THE FEELING OF
HATRED.
MY SON AND DAUGHTER WILL TAKE
REVENGE FOR WHAT THEY'VE DONE.
>> Reporter: IS THE KOREAN WAR
OVER?
IS IT FINISD?HE
>> ( translated ): IT'S NOT
OVER.
THE WAR'S NOT OVER.
WE WON'T PUT DOWN OUR GUNS UNTIL
THE AMERICANS SURRENDER.
>> Reporter: IT SEEMS THEN THE
NORTH KOREANS ARE SENDING ALSO A
MESSAGE.
THEIR NATION MAY BE POOR AND
ISOLATED, BUT THE PEOPLE ARE
STEADFAST AND THEIR RULERS
AREN'T GOING ANYWHERE.
>> Woodruff: AMONG THOSE
ATTENDING TODAY'S CEREMONIES
WERE TWO DECORATED U.S. VETERANS
OF THE KOREAN WAR.
THEY WERE ON A MISSION TO VISIT
THE SITE OF ONE OF THE WAR'S
DEADLIEST BATTLES AT THE CHOSIN
RESERVOIR AND TO TRY TO FIND THE
REMAINS OF A FELLOW AVIATOR
KILLED THERE IN 1950.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, IN
THE AFTERMATH OF THE TREYVON
MARTIN SHOOTING AND ACQUITTAL OF
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, A CONVERSATION
ABOUT BEING A BLACK MAN IN
AMERICA TODAY.
LAST FRIDAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SPOKE ABOUT THE ISSUE BLUNTLY,
AND EMOTIONALLY.
>> AND THE FACT THAT A LOT OF
AFRICAN-AMERICAN BOYS ARE
PAINTED WITH A BROAD BRUSH AND
THE EXCUSE IS GIVEN, WELL, THERE
ARE THESE STATISTICS OUT THERE
THAT SHOW THAT AFRICAN-AMERICAN
BOYS ARE MORE VIOLENT-- USING
THAT AS AN EXCUSE TO THEN SEE
SONS TREATED DIFFERENTLY CAUSES
PAIN.
>> Brown: SPEAKING A DAY BEFORE
PLANNED PROTESTS OVER THE
ACQUITTAL OF GEORGE ZIMMERMAN,
IN THE FATAL SHOOTING OF TRAVYON
MARTIN, THE PRESIDENT SAID THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF MARTIN'S DEATH,
AT JUST 17 YEARS OLD, SPOKE TO A
LARGER ISSUE.
>> WE NEED TO SPEND SOME TIME IN
THINKING ABOUT HOW DO WE BOLSTER
AND REINFORCE OUR AFRICAN-
AMERICAN BOYS?
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
MICHELLE AND I TALK A LOT ABOUT.
AND IS THERE MORE THAT WE CAN DO
TO GIVE THEM THE SENSE THAT
THEIR COUNTRY CARES ABOUT THEM
AND VALUES THEM AND IS WILLING
TO INVEST IN THEM?
>> Brown: HIS WORDS PLAYED INTO
HAVE SPARKED A LARGER
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE
CHALLENGES FACED BY BLACK MEN IN
AMERICAN SOCIETY.
TRAYVON MARTIN'S FATHER, TRACY,
THANKED THE PRESIDENT AT A
CONGRESSIONAL FORUM BROUGHT
TOGETHER BY THE CONGRESSIONAL
BLACK CAUCUS YESTERDAY.
>> IT SPARKS THE CONVERSATION IN
EVERY HOUSEHOLD, OVER THE DINNER
TABLE, AND THAT CONVERSATION IS
WHAT CAN WE DO AS PARENTS, WHAT
CAN WE DO AS MEN, WHAT WE CAN DO
AS FATHERS, WHAT WE CAN DO AS
MENTORS, TO STOP THIS FROM
HAPPENING TO YOUR CHILD.
>> Brown: THAT DISCUSSION WILL
CONTINUE TOMORROW AS MEMBERS OF
THE CAUCUS TRAVEL TO CHICAGO,
FOR A SUMMIT ON THE ISSUE OF
URBAN GUN VIOLENCE.
AND WE HAVE OUR OWN DISCUSSION
NOW WITH FOUR BLACK MEN WHO ALL
NATHAN McCALL IS PROFESSOR OF
AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES AT
EMORY UNIVERSITY AND AUTHOR OF
"MAKES ME WANNA HOLLER: A YOUNG
BLACK MAN IN AMERICA."
KHALIL GIBRAN MUHAMMAD IS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN
BLACK CULTURE AT THE NEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBRARY.
BISHOP HARRY JACKSON IS A
PENTECOSTAL BISHOP WHO SERVES AS
THE SENIOR PASTOR AT HOPE
CHRISTIAN CHURCH IN BELTSVILLE,
MARYLAND.
AND MICHAEL MELTON IS PRESIDENT
OF 100 BLACK MEN OF WASHINGTON,
D.C., A GROUP OF BUSINESSMEN AND
PROFESSIONALS WHO MENTOR MIDDLE-
AND HIGH SCHOOL AGED AFRICAN
AMERICANS.
WELCOME TO ALL OF YOU.
KHALIL MUHAMMAD, I'LL START WITH
YOU, DID THE PRESIDENT FRAME THE
ISSUE WELL?
WHAT DID HE GET RIGHT?
WHERE, IF AT ALL, DID HE FALL
SHORT?
>> WELL, I THINK HE DID GET
THREE THINGS RIGHT.
HE ARTICULATED THAT RACE
MATTERS, THAT HISTORY MATTERS,
AND THAT OUR BLACK CHILDREN
MATTER IN THIS COUNTRY.
AND THOSE ARE THREE THINGS THAT
ARE INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT, GIVEN
THE HIGH STAKES IN THIS MATTER.
WE'VE SEEN IN JUST THE PAST FEW
DAYS, A HUGE RACIAL DIVIDE ON
THE QUESTION OF JUSTICE IN THIS
COUNTRY, WITH THE PEW RESEARCH
POLL SHOWING THAT 86% OF WHITE
AMERICANS WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE
VERDICT AGREE WITH THE VERDICTS
-- I'M SORRY, 86% OF AFRICAN
AMERICAN ARE DISSATISFIED WITH
THE VERDICT AS COMPARED TO 30%
OF WHITES.
THAT IS A GIGANTIC DIVIDE.
IT CALLS US TO THE IMPORTANCE OF
THE SPEECH.
IT MAY BE FIFTH YEAR INTO HIS
TERM, A TERM NOT CHARACTERIZE
BIDE A LOT OF PRESIDENTIAL
LEADERSHIP ON THE QUESTION OF
RACE IN THIS COUNTRY.
HE'S SPOKEN TO THE N.A.A.C.P.
HE'S SPOKEN TO THE CONGRESSIONAL
BLACK CAUCUS AT KEY MOMENTS.
SO I THINK WHAT WE SEE HERE IS
FOR THE FIRST TIME, REALLY
IMPORTANT TIMELY PRESIDENTIAL
LEADERSHIP, AND IT MATTERS
BECAUSE THE DWID ABOUT HOW THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM HAS
STIGMATIZED AND CRIMINALIZED AN
ENTIRE GENERATION OF YOUNG OF
YOUNG PEOPLE IS GROWING AND IS
SIGNIFICANT AND MUST BE
ADDRESSED.
>> Brown: NATHAN McCALL,
SAME QUESTION TO YOU.
WHAT DID YOU HEAR?
WHAT DID THE PRESIDENT GET
RIGHT?
WHERE MIGHT HE HAVE FALLEN
SHORT?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PRESIDENT
DID A GREAT JOB OF PROVIDING A
NUANCED, HEARTFELT VIEW OF THE
EXPERIENCE THAT MANY AMERICANS,
ESPECIALLY AFRICAN AMERICAN
MALES EXPERIENCE IN THIS COUNTRY
ON A DAILY BASIS.
IT WAS IMPORTANT, I THINK, THAT
HE SPOKE FROM THE HEART.
I NOTICE HE DIDN'T HAVE-- IT
WASN'T A PREPARED SPEECH.
AND HE WAS SINCERE.
I THINK IT MEANT A LOT TO MANY
PEOPLE TO HEAR THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES VALIDATING THE
EXPERIENCES OF AFRICAN AMERICAN
MALES WHOSE EXPERIENCES ARE
OFTEN DISMISSED.
ON THE FLIP SIDE, ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I WISH THAT HE HAD
TALKED ABOUT A BIT MORE IS THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE COIN.
TRAYVON MARTIN DID NOT KILL
HIMSELF.
AND SO THE DISCUSSION THAT WE
SHOULD BE HAVING IS-- SHOULD NOT
BE RESTRICTED TO AFRICAN
AMERICAN MALES.
I THINK IT NEEDS TO BE-- THERE'S
A BROADER DISCUSSION TO BE HAD,
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO TALKING
ABOUT THAT.
>> Brown: BISHOP JACKSON, I'LL
TRY TO ASK A DIFFICULT QUESTION
AS SIMPLY AS POSSIBLE-- WHAT IS
THE PROBLEM FOR OR OF BLACK MEN
INN THIS SOCIETY?
HOW DO YOU DEFINE THE PROBLEM?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE IS
CULTURAL REJECTION.
THERE ARE STILL RACISM THAT
EXISTS.
AND I THINK THAT WE AS THE
CHURCH I DON'T WANT TO BE
PEJORATIVE OR NEGATIVE-- WE
HAVEN'T STEPPED UP AT THE LEVEL
THAT WE SHOULD.
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT WAS
LED BY THE CHURCH, CHANGED
HEARTS, THEN LAWS.
TODAY, WE'RE TRYING TO GET
POLITICIANS TO DO WHAT ONLY THE
CHURCH CAN DO, AND MORE OR LESS
THAT'S WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID--
I DON'T WANT TO GET INTO
POLITICAL SPEECH.
SO I THINK BLACK YOUNG MEN WITH
BROKEN HOMES NEED SURROGATE
FAMILIES INSTEAD OF GANGS.
AND I THINK CHURCHES AND GROUPS
LIKE THE 100 BLACK MEN ARE
PREPARED TO TAKE UP THE SLACK
BUT ONE LITTLE ORGANIZATION
CAN'T DO IT.
WE NEED MULTIFELL PELL CHURCHES.
IN MY VIEW, WE NEED BLACK,
WHITE, HISPANIC CHURCHES WORKING
IN TOUGH URBAN AREAS TOGETHER,
AND WE CAN'T LET THIS THING
CALLED RACISM DIVIDE US.
>> Brown: YOU'RE SPEAKING HERE
AS A SOCIAL CONSERVATIVE.
MOST ISSUES WITH THE PRESIDENT
YOU DON'T AGREE BECAUSE WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THIS ON THE PROGRAM
BEFORE.
>> YES, BUT I THINK HE DID A
GREAT JOB.
I, TOO, WISH HE HAD SPENOK MORE
TO WHITES.
I WAS A PROGRAM TODAY, RADIO
PROGRAMS WERE WHITES WERE ALL
UPSET ABUSE THEY SEE THIS AS
DIVISIVE, AS OPPOSED TO GIVING A
LITTLE BIT OF A BALM OF HEALING
TO BLACK PEOPLE WHO FEEL LEFT
OUT.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK MICHAEL
MELTON, WHAT PART OF THIS CAN BE
ADDRESSED ONLY WITHIN THE BLACK
COMMUNITY?
AND WHAT PART MUST BE ADDRESSED
BY THE NATION AS A WHOLE?
>> I THINK WITHIN THE BLACK
COMMUNITY, WE NEED TO TEACH OUR
CHILDREN TO STOP BEING AFRAID OF
THE POLICE.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF TRAYVON MARTIN
HAD CALLED 911 AND SAID, "I AM
BEING STALKED BY SOMEONE AS I'M
WALKING HOME" THEN THEY WOULD
HAVE HAD A RECORDED RECORD OF
HIMSELF TRYING TO DEFEND
HIMSELF.
BUT SINCE THERE WAS A FEAR OF WE
DON'T WANT TO GET THE POLICE
ENGAGED IN OUR BUSINESS, HE
DIDN'T MAKE THAT SIMPLE CALL.
AND I THINK THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
SOMETHING WE INDIVIDUALLY COULD
TEACH OURSELVES.
IN THE BIGGER COMMUNITY, I THINK
IF EACH ONE OF US JUST TAKES THE
EXAMPLE-- LOOK, AM I BEING
SUBTLY RACIST OR OVERTLY
RACIST-- BLACK, WHITE, HISPANIC,
WHATEVER.
AM I HAVING A PROBLEM WITH THIS
PERSON BECAUSE OF RACE OR JUST
BECAUSE OF SOMETHING THAT
HAPPENED?
AND IF WE JUST ALL RETREAT A
STEP AND JUST THINK OPENLY ABOUT
WHAT WE'RE DOING, I THINK THAT
WILL HELP.
>> Brown: KHALIL MUHAMMAD
WHAT, IS YOUR ANSWER TO THAT?
WHAT MUST BE ADDRESSED IN JUST
THE AFRICAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY?
WHAT PART IS FOR THEATIO NN AS A
WHOLE?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THERE'S
ALWAYS ROOM FOR TEACHING VALUES.
THIS HAS OFTEN BEEN A QUESTION
OF PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
AND, FRANKLY, THAT'S BEEN THE
MOST CONSISTENT MESSAGE WITHIN
THE BLACK COMMUNITY.
IT COMES FROM THE PULPIT.
IT COMES FROM TEACHERS.
IT COMES FROM MENTORS.
BUT THE FACT REMAINS THAT
TRAYVON MARTIN'S BEHAVIOR HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH PERSONAL
RESPONSIBILITY.
AND WE MUST REALIZE THAT WHAT
HAPPENED TO TRAYVON, WHAT
HAPPENED IN THE ZIMMERMAN
ACQUITTAL ARE THE SAME COIN AS
THE PROBLEM OF STOP, QUESTION,
AND FRISK IN NEW YORK, OR RACIAL
PROFILING IN GENERAL.
IN OTHER WORDS, WE HAVE
COMPLETELYIZED IN THIS SOCIETY
THE PRESUMPTION OF GUILT AMONG
YOUNG AND ADULT BLACK MEN IN
THIS COUNTRY, ESSENTIALLY SAYING
IT IS OKAY TO BE FEARFUL, THAT
THAT FEAR IS A REFLECTION OF THE
STATISTICS IN OUR SOCIETY AND
THEIR INDIVIDUALITY IS
COMPLETELY SUBSUMED.
AND THAT IS A PROBLEM FOR-- THAT
IS AN EDUCATIONAL PROBLEM.
IT IS A CULTURAL PROBLEM.
IT IS A PROBLEM THAT ESSENTIALLY
BLACK PEOPLE CAN'T FIX, EITHER
IN THE POLITICAL SYSTEM OR IN
THE WHITE HOMES AND LATINO HOMES
AND ASIAN HOMES THAT HAVE
TREMENDOUS AMBIVALENCE ABOUT
WHETHER A BLACK PERSON'S
INDIVIDUALITY ACTUALLY COUNT AND
MATTERS IN THIS SOCIETY.
>> Brown: I WANT TO BRING BACK
BISHOP JACKSON TODAY.
YOU TALKED EARLIER TO ONE OF OUR
PROSECUTORS AND YOU MENTIONED A
CULTURE OF GRIEVANCE IN THE
BLACK COMMUNITY THAT YOU'VE SEEN
AT TIMES.
>> YEAH, I THINK, UNFORTUNATELY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S STATEMENTS--
TO MANY-- KIND OF FIT INTO THAT
POLITICS OF GRIEVANCE CATEGORY,
WHICH MEANS, WE CRY OUT ABOUT
SOMETHING, AND THEN WE DON'T
FOLLOW THROUGH.
I THINK WE NEED TO HONOR HIS
MESSAGE TO US AND TAKE DECISIVE
ACTION.
SOONER, WITH THE FIRST BLACK
PRESIDENT AND SECRETARIES OF
STATE AND OTHERS, WHO ARE BLACK,
FOLKS ARE GOING TO SAY, "HEY,
YOU BLACK FOLKS HAVE YOUR OWN
PROBLEMS.
SOLVE IT YOURSELVES."
I THINK IT'S TIME FOR TO US TAKE
AGGRESSIVE ACTION.
>> Brown: WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
>> WHAT IT MEANS FOR ME NSANFORD
FLORIDA, THIS PAST YEAR-- MANY
DON'T KNOW-- 65 PASTORS MET
TOGETHER ABOUT A YEAR AGO.
THERE WAS NO RIOT IN SANFORD
ITSELF.
I THINK WE'VE GOT TO GET THE
CHURCH INVOLVED.
OTHER GROUPS CAN DO THEIR THING.
BUT I THINK WE HAVE THE
AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS.
WE NEED TO ENGAGE KIDS FROM
BROKEN HOMES.
GIVE THEM A VISION AND INCENTIVE
FOR THEIR EXPLIEFS WE'VE GOT TO
DO IT AND TAKE ACTION NOW.
>> Brown: NATHAN McCALL,
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE?
ALL FOUR OF ARE YOU PARENTS.
ALL WORK WITH YOUNG PEOPLE.
WHAT DO YOU TELL THEM?
>> WELL, IF I MAY, I'D LIKE TO
ADDRESS THAT PHRASE, "THE
CULTURE OF GRIEVANCE."
I HAVE A BIT OF A PROBLEM WITH
THAT BECAUSE I THINK, AGAIN,
WE'RE GOING BACK TO BLAMING THE
VICTIMS.
AND YOU CAN'T TELL PEOPLE WHO
ARE HURT, PEOPLE WHO ARE IN PAIN
HOUR, TO SUFFER OR,000 GRIEVE.
THIS MURDER OF TRAYVON MARTIN
HAS BEEN ONE OF A NUMBER OF
MURDERS THAT HAVE HAPPENED OVER
THE YEARS THAT HAVE-- AND THE
OUTCOME HAS BEEN GRIEVOUS.
SO I THINK WE HAVE TO BE VERY,
VERY CAREFUL WITH REGARD TO
THAT.
THOUGH I AGREE THAT THERE ARE
THINGS WE CAN DO WITHIN THE
BLACK COMMUNITIES, AGAIN, I
DON'T THINK THE PROBLEMS THAT
EXIST IN THE BLACK COMMUNITIES
EXIST IN A VOID.
I THINK THEY WERE CREATE BIDE A
LARGER REALITY WHICH RELATES TO
WHITE AMERICA AND OUR HISTORY IN
THIS COUNTRY.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS WE
NEED TO TALK ABOUT.
BUT IT'S NOT ONLY BLACK PEOPLE
THAT NEED TO DO SELF-EVALUATION
AND THINKING ABOUT HOW WE'RE
GOING TO APPROACH PROBLEMS WITH
US.
THE PROBLEM DOES NOT LIE
EXCLUSIVELY WITH US AS AFRICAN
AMERICANS.
>> Brown: MICHAEL MELTON, YOU
ARE IN THE MENT ORG BUSINESS,
RIGHT?
>> YES, I AM.
>> Brown: YOUR ORGANIZATION.
SO YOU'RE WORKING WITH YOUNG
AFRICAN AMERICAN MEN AND WOMEN,
BUT WHAT-- WHAT DO YOU TELL
THEM?
WHAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
FOR THEM TO NEGOTIATE THEIR WAY
THROUGH ALL THE THINGS WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT?
>> I TRY TO TELL THEM TO BE
AWARE OF YOUR SURROUNDINGS AND
HOW OTHER PEOPLE ARE PERCEIVING
YOU.
AND YOU DON'T NEED TO BE
DEFENSIVE, BUT YOU NEED TO
ACTUALLY THINK MORE THAN A
NORMAL PERSON WOULD ABOUT CAN
THIS BE PERCEIVED INCORRECTLY?
AND BE NONAGGRESSIVE.
JUST NATURALLY.
AND JUST TRY TO THINK ABOUT
THAT.
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
SOMETIMES SEE YOU INCORRECTLY,
BUT A CONVERSATION, "HEY, WHO
ARE YOU?
WHAT DO YOU WANT?
I'M JUST TRYING TO WALK HOME."
THERE WAS SOMETHING THAT COULD
HAVE DEFUSED IT?
BUT ON THE OTHER END, I THINK
THAT SELF-DEFENSE IN THIS CASE
SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN APPLICABLE
AT ALL.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU INCORRECTLY
APPROACH SOMEONE BECAUSE YOU
THINK THEY'RE DOING SOMETHING
WRONG AND THEN WHATEVER ENSUES
AFTER THAT, IT SHOULD BE YOUR
FAULT.
AND THAT'S COULD BE A
MODIFICATION TO THE LAW THAT
WILL MAKE IT MORE JUSTICE.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, A BIG,
BIG SUBJECT THAT WE'VE JUST
STARTED BUT WE'LL END IT THERE.
MICHAEL MELTON, HUMAN
PAPILLOMAVIRUS, NATHAN McCALL,
AND BISHOP HARRY JACKSON.
THANK YOU ALL FOUR VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
SAID HE WANTS TEXAS TO GET
FEDERAL COURT APPROVAL BEFORE
CHANGING ITS ELECTION RULES.
UNITED STATES PROSECUTORS
INDICTED FOUR RUSSIAN NATIONALS
AND A UKRAINIAN FOR HACKING
CORPORATE COMPUTERS TO STEAL
MILLIONS IN CASH AND GOODS AND
SPANISH POLICE QUESTIONED THE
SDOIA A SECOND JUROR IN THE
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN TRIAL SPOKE
PUBLICLY, SAYING SHE FELT
ZIMMERMAN, "GOT AWAY WITH
MURDER" BUT THERE QAWNT ENOUGH
EVIDENCE TO CONVICT HIM.
>> Brown: ONLINE, THE CASE FOR
ALLOWING MORE GUEST WORKERS INTO
THE U.S.
KWAME HOLMAN EXPLAINS.
>> Holman: YESTERDAY WE FEATURED
THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MORE HIGH-
TECH VISAS.
TODAY: WHY SUCH WORKERS
STIMULATE INNOVATION AND THE
ECONOMY.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE
AND ON TWITTER, WE HOSTED A
LIVELY DISCUSSION ON CURBING GUN
VIOLENCE.TS ARE AVAILABLE
ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
FIND ALL THE STORIES FROM OUR
SERIES THERE AS WELL.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.